. Fore-
casting stock exchange prices by considering its dynamic factors is an important part
of a business investment plan.


 There are two prices that are critical for any investor to know: the current price of the investment they own or plan to own and its future selling price. Despite this, investors are constantly reviewing past pricing history and using it to influence their future investment decisions. Some investors won't buy a stock or index that has risen too sharply, because they assume it's due for a correction, while other investors avoid a falling stock because they fear it will continue to deteriorate. y

pr>>> print(tf.keras.__version__)
2.9.0
>>> print(tf.__version__)
2.9.1


This can help individuals and institutions speculate on the stock price trend and help them decide whether to buy or short the stock price to maximize their profit.

With an understanding of what stock and the stock market is, let’s understand why people fascinate by a Machine Learning model that can predict the stock price. A Machine Learning model predicts the value of an observation based on several inputs that are predictors. The stock market is working similarly, i.e., based on several inputs, the stock price fluctuates. However, the bone of contention is that, unlike other problems that generally are predicted, the predictions of stock prices are rather complicated as it is often prey to the butterfly effect. Anything, any event in the outside world, can influence the price of the stock. These include political events, economic news, competitors or related stock movements, and other

Time-series forecasting models are the models that are capable to predict future values based on previously observed values. Time-series forecasting is widely used for non-stationary data. Non-stationary data are called the data whose statistical properties e.g. the mean and standard deviation are not constant over time but instead, these metrics vary over time.

 movement of the chosen data points, such as a security’s price, over a specified period of time with data points recorded at regular intervals.

(Jain et al., 2018)

optimizer='sgd' #sgd # RMSprop #adam
loss='mse'#mean_absolute_percentage_error mse
activation='relu' #relu # tanh  #Rectified Linear Unit

regularization method where input and recurrent connections to LSTM units are probabilistically excluded from activation and weight updates while training a network.

Fraction of the training data to be used as validation data. The model will set apart this fraction of the training data, will not train on it, and will evaluate the loss and any model metrics on this data at the end of each epoch

 layer that is deeply connected with its preceding layer which means the neurons of the layer are







C. Multi-step ahead predictions
In recent years, many researchers focus in time series
forecasting, but most of them pay attention to one-step-ahead
predictions, which is not practical in daily life. For multi-step
ahead prediction, there are two basic strategies: iterate-based
and direct-based methods. Iterate-based method [7] uses the
output of time step t as one of the inputs of time step t+1. The
main disadvantage of this method is that the error would be
accumulated to a very large number a few time steps later.
Direct-based method [8] build different training examples to
get different models, one model make prediction of the next
time step, another model make prediction of the next two time
step and so on. The main disadvantage of this method is the
need of too much computing resources.



Iterate-based method uses the
output of time step t as one of the inputs of time step t+1. The
main disadvantage of this method is that the error would be
accumulated to a very large number a few time steps later.

statistical measure in a regression model that determines the proportion of variance in the dependent variable that can be explained by the independent variabl
